[shelly] Shelly Binding initial contribution (#6320)
openhab/openhab2-addons: bundles/org.openhab.binding.shelly/README.md

|deviceIp          |IP address of the Shelly device, usually auto-discovered      |    yes  |none                                              |
|userId            |The userid used for http authentication*                      |    no   |none                                              |
|password          |Password for http authentication*                             |    no   |none                                              |
|lowBattery        |Threshold for battery level. Set alert when level is below.   |    no   |20 (=20%), only for battery powered devices       |
|updateInterval    |Interval for the background status check in seconds.          |    no   |1h for battery powered devices, 60s for all others|
|eventsButton      |true: register event "trigger when a button is pushed"        |    no   |false                                             |
|eventsSwitch      |true: register event "trigger of switching the relay output"  |    no   |true                                              |
|eventsSensorReport|true: register event "posted updated sensor data"             |    no   |true for sensor devices                           |

> |enableCoIoT       |true: Listen for CoIoT/COAP events, OFF: Don't use COAP       |    no   |true for battery devices, false for others        |

Reviewer: Should be `eventsCoIoT` instead of `enableCoIoT` as far as I can see.

Author: fixed, thx

> 

Reviewer 2: remove this empty line

Author: done

> # Shelly Binding (org.openhab.binding.shelly)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Shelly Binding
```

Author: done

> This openHAB 2 Binding implements control for the Shelly series of devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This binding implements control for the Shelly series of devices.
```

Author: done

> This includes sending commands to the devices as well as reding the device status and sensor data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This supports sending commands to the devices as well as reading device status and sensor data.
```

Author: done

> ## Supported Devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Supported Things
```

Author: done

> |Thing               |Type                                                    | Status                                                   |

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest to remove the "Status" column - we should only list supported devices (that's what the section title says).

Author: done

> |Thing               |Type                                                    | Status                                                   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Thing Type ID       | Description                                            | Status                                                   |
```

|--------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|
| shelly1            | Shelly Single Relay Switch                             | fully supported                                          |
| shelly1pm          | Shelly Single Relay Switch with integrated Power Meter | fully supported                                          |

> | shelly1em          | Shelly EM  with integrated Power Meter                 | fully support                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| shelly1em          | Shelly EM  with integrated Power Meter                 | fully supported                                            |
```

Author: status column is removed

| shellyht           | Shelly Sensor (temp+humidity)                          | fully supported                                          |
| shellyplugs        | Shelly Plug-S                                          | fully supported                                          |
| shellyplug         | Shelly Plug                                            | fully supported                                          |
| shellyrgbw2        | Shelly RGB Controller                                  | fully supported                                          |
| shellybulb         | Shelly Bulb in Color or WHite Mode                     | fully supported                                          |
| shellysense        | Shelly Motion and IR Controller                        | fully supported                                          |
| shelly4pro         | Shelly 4x Relay Switch                                 | fully supported                                          |
| shellysmoke        | Shelly Sensor (temp+humidity)                          | should get discovered, but no special handling yet       |

## Firmware

> To utilize all features the binding requires firmware version 1.5.0 or newer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To utilize all features of a device, it must have firmware version 1.5.0 or newer.
```

Author: done

This should be available for all devices.

> Older versions work in general, but have impacts to functionality (e.g. no events for battery powered devices).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Older versions work in general, but have impacts on the functionality (e.g. no events for battery powered devices).
```

Author: done

The binding displays a WARNING if the firmware is older.
It also informs you when an update is available.
Use the device's web ui or the Shelly App to perform the update.

> 

Reviewer 2: remove superfluous empty lines

Author: done

## Discovery

> The binding uses mDNS to discovery the Shelly devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The binding uses mDNS to discover the Shelly devices.
```

Author: done

> They periodically announce their presence, which can be used by the binding to find them on the local network and fetch their IP address.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
They periodically announce their presence, which is used by the binding to identify their IP address.
```

Author: done

> The binding will then use the Shelly REST api (http) to discover device capabilities, read status and control the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The binding then uses the Shelly REST API  to discover the device capabilities, read the status and control the device.
```

> In addition event callbacks will be used to support battery powered devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition, event callbacks are used for battery powered devices.
```

Author: done

> The binding also support the CoIoT Spec, which is based on Coap. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ### Password protected devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Password Protected Devices
```

Author: done

> The Shelly Apps allow to protect device configuration by userid+password, which is  supported by the binding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Shelly Apps allow to protect device configuration by user id and password.
```

Author: done

> If you are using password protected Shelly devices you need to configure userid and password, otherwise a thing is created (shelly-protected) to indicate that a password protected device was discovered (rthe dicovered information includes the device type and IP address).

Reviewer 2: Instead of creating a fake Thing of type "shelly-protected", you should create a thing of the correct thing type and set its status to OFFLINE.CONFIGURATION_ERROR. The user can then edit this thing's configuration and provide the correct credentials.

Change the binding configuration and re-discover the device.

1. Global Default: Go to PaperUI:Configuration:Addons:Shelly Binding and edit the configuration.
Those will be used when now settings are given on the thing level.
2. Edit the thing configuration. 

> Important: The IP address shouldn't change after the device is added as a new thing in openHAB. This could be achieved by

Reviewer 2: So this means that you identify devices by their IP address? Don't they have any kind of unique identifier that they send with their mDNS announcement and which could serve as the primary id so that changing IP addressed could be covered?

- assigning a static IP address or
- use DHCP and setup the router to assign always the same ip address to the device

> You need to re-discover the device if there is a reason why the ip address changed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to re-discover the device if their ip address has changed.
```

Author: removed

> New devices could be discovered an added to the openHAB system by using Paper UI's Inbox.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

> Running a manual discovery should show up all devices on your local network. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: done

> Sometime you need to run the manual discovery multiple times until you see all your devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: That's true and users were confused. The world is not perfect so I mention this

Reviewer 2: Is this a bug in the mDNS discovery? Or are the devices simply not responding?

Make sure to wake-up battery powered devices (press the button inside the device) so they show up on the network.

## Binding Configuration

The binding has some global configuration options.

> Go to PaperUI:Configuration:Addons:Shelly Binding to edit those.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed, but don't thing that most of the users a familar with concepts, diagnostics etc.

Reviewer 2: Then feel free to improve the general documentation, but this is nothing binding specific.

| Parameter      |Description                                                    |Mandatory|Default                                         |
|----------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|---------|------------------------------------------------|

> | defaultUserId  |Default userid for http authentication when not set in thing   |    no   |none                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| defaultUserId  |Default user id for HTTP authentication when not set in thing   |    no   |none                                            |
```

Reviewer 2: Isn't the default set to "admin" in the XMLs?

Author: done

> | defaultPassword|Default password for http authentication when not set in thing |    no   |none                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| defaultPassword|Default password for HTTP authentication when not set in thing |    no   |none                                            |
```

Reviewer 2: Isn't the default set to "admin" in the XMLs?

## Thing Configuration

|Parameter         |Description                                                   |Mandatory|Default                                           |
|------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|---------|--------------------------------------------------|

> |deviceIp          |IP address of the Shelly device, usually auto-discovered      |    yes  |none                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|deviceIp          |IP address of the Shelly device                                                |    yes  |none                                              |
```

Author: done

> |userId            |The userid used for http authentication*                      |    no   |none                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|userId            |The user id used for HTTP authentication*                      |    no   |none                                              |
```

Author: done

> |password          |Password for http authentication*                             |    no   |none                                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|password          |Password for HTTP authentication*                             |    no   |none                                              |
```

Author: done

|lowBattery        |Threshold for battery level. Set alert when level is below.   |    no   |20 (=20%), only for battery powered devices       |
|updateInterval    |Interval for the background status check in seconds.          |    no   |1h for battery powered devices, 60s for all others|
|eventsButton      |true: register event "trigger when a button is pushed"        |    no   |false                                             |
|eventsSwitch      |true: register event "trigger of switching the relay output"  |    no   |true                                              |
|eventsSensorReport|true: register event "posted updated sensor data"             |    no   |true for sensor devices                           |

> |eventsCoIoT       |true: Listen for CoIoT/COAP events, OFF: Don't use COAP       |    no   |true for battery devices, false for others        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|eventsCoIoT       |true: Listen to CoIoT/CoAP events                                |    no   |true for battery devices, false for others        |
```

Author: done

|          |charger      |Switch   |yes      |ON: charger connected, OFF: charger not connected.                     |
|sensors   |temperature  |Number   |yes      |Temperature in °C                                                      |
|          |humidity     |Number   |yes      |Relative humidity in %                                                 |
|          |lux          |Number   |yes      |Brightness in Lux                                                      |
|          |motion       |Switch   |yes      |ON: Motion detected, OFF: No motion (check also motionTimer)           |
|          |last_update  |String   |yes      |Timestamp of the last update (values read by the binding)              |
|          |event        |Trigger  |yes      |Trigger channel, receives JSON formatted event information             |
|battery   |batteryLevel |Number   |yes      |Battery Level in %                                                     |
|          |batteryAlert |Switch   |yes      |Low battery alert                                                      |

## Full Example

> Note: PaperUI is recommended, if you want to use text files make sure to replace the thing id from you channel definition 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: hmm. done

> Replace roller:XXXXXn with the last 6 digits of the Shelly device's MAC address.

Reviewer 2: Why? The Thing ID can be chosen by the user, so calling it "1" should just be fine.

Author: removed

Thing shelly:shelly25-relay:XXXXX3 "Shelly 25 Relay XXXXX3" @ "Hall Way" [deviceIp="x.x.x.x", userId="", password=""]
Thing shelly:shelly25-relay:XXXXX4 "Shelly 25 Relay XXXXX4" @ "Dining Room" [deviceIp="x.x.x.x", userId="", password=""]
Thing shelly:shelly25-relay:XXXXX5 "Shelly 25 Relay XXXXX5" @ "Bed Room" [deviceIp="x.x.x.x", userId="", password=""]

* .items

Switch Shelly_XXXXX3_Relay "Garage Light" (garage) {channel="shelly:shelly1:XXXXX3:relay#output"}
Switch Shelly_XXXXX3_OverPower "Garage Light Over Power" (garage) {channel="shelly:shelly1:XXXXX3:relay#overpower"}
Switch Shelly_XXXXX3_OverTemp "Garage Light Over Temperature" (garage) {channel="shelly:shelly1:XXXXX3:relay#overtemperature"}
Number Shelly_XXXXX3_AutoOnTimer "Garage Light Auto On Timer" (garage) {channel="shelly:shelly1:XXXXX3:relay#autoOn"}
Number Shelly_XXXXX3_AutoOffTimer "Garage Light Auto Off Timer" (garage){channel="shelly:shelly1:BA2F18:relay#autoOff"}
Switch Shelly__TimerActive "Garage Light Timer Active" (garage) {channel="shelly:shelly1:BA2F18:relay#timerActive"}

/* Power Meter */
Number Shelly_BA2F18_Power "Bath Room Light Power" (bathroom) {channel="shelly:shelly1:BA2F18:meter#currentWatts"}

> 

Reviewer 2: Please also add a short sitemap snippet here to make the example complete.

Author: done

# Shelly Binding (org.openhab.binding.shelly)

This openHAB 2 Binding implements control for the Shelly series of devices. This includes sending commands to the devices as well as reding the device status and sensor data.

> Author: Markus Michels (markus7017)

Reviewer 3: Please remove this block. It's covered in the binding.xml. And the documentation does not refer to specific forum posts.

Author: done, moved all of this to READMEbeta.md

Author: please check new README

To which folder has dev doc to go?

Author: done

| shelly4pro       | Shelly 4x Relay Switch                                 | fully supported                                          |
| shellysmoke      | Shelly Sensor (temp+humidity)                          | should get discovered, but no special handling yet       |

Feedback is welcome any time. Leave some comments in the forum.

Please send a PM to markus7017 If you encounter errors and include a TRACE log.

## Binding installation

### Firmware

To utilize all features the binding requires firmware version 1.5.0 or newer. This should be available for all devices.
Older versions work in general, but have impacts to functionality (e.g. no events for battery powered devices).

The binding displays a WARNING if the firmware is older. It also informs you when an update is available. Use the device's web ui or the Shelly App to perform the update.

List of Firmware Versions for the different devices could be found here: https://api.shelly.cloud/files/firmware

###m Password protection

For now the binding doesn't support the http authentication. This is on the list. Please deactivate the authentication before discovering devices.

> ### Alpha/Beta versions

Reviewer 3: Please remove this block. I understand this is logical when providing it to the users via other ways. But once it's merged this doesn't apply anymore.

Author: done, moved all of this to READMEbeta.md

The binding is work in progress. You have to expect bugs etc. and each version might be incompatible to the existing thing defintion, which means no backware compatibility.

Channel definitions are subject to change with any alpha or beta release. Please make sure to **delete all Shelly things before updating*** the binding and clean out the JSON DB:

- delete all Shelly things from PaperUI's Inbox and Thing list
- stop OH
- run openhab-cli clean-cache
- check the JSON db files for shelly references, remove all entries
- copy the jar to the addons/ folder
- start OH, wait until everything is initialized
- run the device discovery

If you hit a problem make sure to post a TRACE log (or send PM) so I could look into the details.

> ### Instalation

Reviewer 3: Please remove this block. Same comment as regarding the previous block.

Switch Shelly__TimerActive "Garage Light Timer Active" (garage) {channel="shelly:shelly1:BA2F18:relay#timerActive"}

/* Power Meter */
Number Shelly_BA2F18_Power "Bath Room Light Power" (bathroom) {channel="shelly:shelly1:BA2F18:meter#currentWatts"}

* .rules

reading colors from color picker:
import org.openhab.core.library.types.*

rule "color" 
when
    Item ShellyColor changed
then
    var HSBType hsbValue = ShellyColor.state as HSBType
    var int redValue = hsbValue.red.intValue
    var int greenValue = hsbValue.green.intValue
    var int blueValue = hsbValue.blue.intValue
end

# Additional Notes

## General

You should use firmware version 1.5.0 or never. It might be that the binding is working with older versions, but this was never tested.

If you gave multiple network interfaces you should check openHAB's default setting.
Open PaperUI and go to Configuration->System->Network Settings and verify the selected interface. If the Shelly devices are not on the same network you could try to add them manually. However, devices in different networks have not been tested yet (please post a comment in the community thread if you are successful).

> ## Reporting a problem/bug

Reviewer 3: Please remove this block. This is generic information, not specific for a binding and should not be in each binding documentation.

If you encounter a problem you could put the device into DEBUG or TRACE mode

- open OH console (execute "openhab-cli console")
- set the debug level ("log:set DEBUG org.openhab.binding.shelly")
- issue command or wait until problem occurs
- post an extract of openhab.log to the community thread (or send the author a PM - make sure the log extract has enough information, some more lines are fine)

> ## Feature Request

Reviewer 3: Please remove this block. This is generic information, not specific for a binding and should not be in each binding documentation.

This should be available for all devices.
Older versions work in general, but have impacts to functionality (e.g. no events for battery powered devices).

The binding displays a WARNING if the firmware is older.
It also informs you when an update is available.
Use the device's web ui or the Shelly App to perform the update.

## Discovery

The binding uses mDNS to discovery the Shelly devices.
They periodically announce their presence, which can be used by the binding to find them on the local network and fetch their IP address.
The binding will then use the Shelly REST API (HTTP) to discover device capabilities, read status and control the device.
In addition event callbacks will be used to support battery powered devices.

Make sure to wake-up battery powered devices (press the button inside the device) so they show up on the network.
Sometime you need to run the manual discovery multiple times until you see all your devices.

Important: The IP address shouldn't change after the device is added as a new thing in openHAB.
This could be achieved by

- assigning a static IP address or
- use DHCP and setup the router to assign always the same ip address to the device

> ### Password protected devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Password Protected Devices
```

Author: done

> The Shelly Apps allow to protect device configuration by user id+password, which is  supported by the binding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Shelly Apps allow to protect device configuration by user id and password.
```

Author: done

> If you are using password protected  devices you need to configure user id and password. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are using password protected devices you need to provide the user id and password as part of the Thing configuration.
```

> A special thing is created if the access to the device's APU cannot be initialized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Replaced by:
The Shelly Apps allow to protect device configuration by user id and password.
In this case you need to configure user id and password in the Thing Configuation. 
Proceed the following steps

- Accept the discovered device from the Inbox
- You'll be prompted for credentials, set user id and password, accept
- The Thing gets re-initialized and the Thing Type is adjusted
- On success the channels are updated, otherwise you need to change credentials.

For those devices the Thing Type "shellydevice" is used.

Reviewer 2: I really meant to simply delete that sentence - this does not belong here.
If such a device is discovered and approved by the user, the following steps should be obvious and not specific to this binding, so there should not be any specific information here.

> You need to edit the Thing configuration and setup user id and password (same as in the Shelly App) to activate this Thing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: replaced

> The Thing will be re-initialized and the Thing type adjusted and this was successful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: replaced

## Binding Configuration

> The binding has some global configuration options.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The binding has the following configuration options:
```

Author: ok

|password          |Password for HTTP authentication*                             |    no   |none                                              |
|lowBattery        |Threshold for battery level. Set alert when level is below.   |    no   |20 (=20%), only for battery powered devices       |
|updateInterval    |Interval for the background status check in seconds.          |    no   |1h for battery powered devices, 60s for all others|
|eventsButton      |true: register event "trigger when a button is pushed"        |    no   |false                                             |
|eventsPush        |true: register event "trigger on short and long push"         |    no   |false                                             |
|eventsSwitch      |true: register event "trigger of switching the relay output"  |    no   |true                                              |
|eventsSensorReport|true: register event "posted updated sensor data"             |    no   |true for sensor devices                           |
|eventsCoIoT       |true: Listen for CoIoT/COAP events                            |    no   |true for battery devices, false for others        |

> Independent from the updateInterval setting the binding will perform a settings refresh from the device once per minute.

Reviewer 2: This I do not understand. Does it mean that those are not configuration values of the handler, but something that is stored in the device? If so, what should happen if the handler is configured textually? Usually, values that are in the device are modelled as channels. Which parameters are these here?

Author: you mean this "Independent from the updateInterval setting the binding will perform a settings refresh from the device once per minute."?

You could set the status update interval (polling when not using Coap). However, to get settings, which were changed in the Apps the binding refreshes the settings once per minute even if status interval is < 60s.

Author: or the event options (eventsSensorReport...):
This allows to disable setting the event urls (e.g. if you have another controller already set those urls)

Reviewer 2: I mean that configuration parameters are there to configure the HANDLER, not the remote device. See also https://github.com/eclipse/smarthome/issues/3484.

Author: no, those options configure the handler
if there is more than „one“ controller the user could decide, which one receives the event callback
another reasons: Shelly still has a problem when enabling all events. This could lead into a device reboot. With 1.5.6 it‘s better, but still this could happen (that was also the reason to implement the uptime monitoring being able to quantify this situation). Sometimes a http could also lead into a timeout, I increased it to 6s, which made it better, but still..
All of that is reported to Shelly, but so far...

Reviewer 2: Hm, I still do not understand how your infos are related to "perform a settings refresh". If those settings (=parameters) are options of the handler, why does it require any refresh from the device?

There is no event from the device that the settings have be changed by the Shelly App so this is kind of a fallback to get updates at least once per minute. 

## Channels

### General Notes

> - Various channels are only visible for linking when you click Show More in the channel definition

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: user already asked this, because they are not familar with this concept - listen to the users

Reviewer 2: Then please update the general documentation - this is not at all binding specific, so if people are not aware of this feature, they will have the same issue with 100 other bindings as well. It does not make sense to explain it at 100+ places and we must not start doing so.

Author: ol, I‘m pretty sure it is explained, but users don‘t read the general doc so they ask those question in the community threads. Could I add a link? Could you point me to it?

Reviewer 2: Adding 100+ links on various binding pages isn't any better.
And we might have other UIs in future that do not have a "Show More" button and work differently. So in order to decouple binding docs from UI, just don't add any info or link here.

> - input channel is only available with firmware > 1.5.6, otherwise NULL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The channel `input` is only available with firmware > 1.5.6.
```

Author: replaced by: The channels `input` and `input1`/`input2` are only updated with firmware > 1.5.6, otherwise the value will be NULL.

Reviewer 2: Ok if you remove the ", otherwise the value will be NULL." part - I assume that you are not actively setting state updates with value NULL, do you?

> - use channel rollerpos only if you need the inverted value, otherwise use the control channel and Item Type Number, see example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use the channel `rollerpos` only if you need the inverted value, otherwise use the control channel with item type `Number`, see example below.
```

Author: done

- Short push and long push events require firmware version 1.5.6+.

> - The different devices have different types of power meters = different set of channels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The different devices have different types of power meters, i.e. different sets of channels.
```

Every device has a channel group "device" with the following channels:

|Group     |Channel      |Type     |read-only|Desciption                                                                       |
|----------|-------------|---------|---------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|device    |uptime       |Number   |yes      |Number of seconds since the device was powered up                                |
|          |lastUpdate   |DateTime |yes      |Timestamp of last update on any of the device's channel                          |
|          |signal       |Number   |yes      |WiFi signal strength (RSSI)                                                      |
|          |lastAlarm    |String   |yes      |Most recent alarm for health check                                               |

### Event Channel

> The binding maps the inbound HTTP events from the device into trigger events for those enabled in the Thing Configuration (see above).

Reviewer 2: I am not really happy with having all those events unsorted in a single channel and would strongly advice to refactor this.
The buttons should clearly make use of the `DefaultSystemChannelTypeProvider.SYSTEM_BUTTON` channel type - having short and long press makes them a perfect match. For the user, this will mean that he can directly use all associated profiles for such buttons.
The relais should be a simply state channel, nothing else -> remove the events
The same for the roller shutter events - they should simply update the state of a rollershutter channel.  -> remove the events
The alarm should be a separate event channel with different events for the different alarm types.

Author: Those are events, not states
When you press the button for a short period of time it triggers an http event shortpush, which gets mapped to the event channel. If you release the button this event is over, it's no longer pressed, the device doesn't send an event etc. So it's an event The only thing I'm doing is passing those events to a trigger channel. Also the Harmony binding has such triggers.

Reviewer 2: > The only thing I'm doing is passing those events to a trigger channel.

Correct, that's why I asked you to use the `DefaultSystemChannelTypeProvider.SYSTEM_BUTTON` system channel type for exactly this, which is an event channel type, not a state channel type.
But the relais + rollershutter events are state changes and thus belong to the state channels (for which state change events are readily available).

|SHORTPUSH   |A short push to the button was detected  (requires FW 1.5.6)                                                     |
|SHORTPUSH   |A long push to the button was detected   (requires FW 1.5.6)                                                     |
|OUT_ON      |Relais output is on                                                                                              |
|OUT_OFF     |Relais output is off                                                                                             |
|ROLLER_OPEN |Roller has reached the OPEN position and stopped.                                                                |
|ROLLER_CLOSE|Roller has reached the CLOSED position and stopped.                                                              |
|ROLLER_SRTOP|Roller was STOPped while moving (not in the OPEN or CLOSE position)                                              |
|ALARM       |The health monitoring detected a alarm condition, check "Alarm Events" details.                                  |
                                                                                                                               |

> The channel is implemented as a Trigger and could be used in a Rule:

Reviewer 2: Have you anywhere mentioned the channel id of it?
```suggestion
The channel is implemented as an event channel and can be used in a Rule:
```

Author: sure: |          |event        |Trigger  |yes      |Triggers an event with a payload provinding more information (JSON               |

at the component level, e.g. for a relay

Wording doesn't make sense to me: The event mechanism is implemented as a Trigger channel (id event, see the component channel definitions, e.g. relay)

Author: I see I not to remove the json remark

Author: I see I not to remove the json remark

Author: I turn the alarm into a trigger channel with defined alarm types:
### Alarm Events

The binding provides health monitoring functions for the device.
When an alarm condition is detected the channel alarm gets triggered and provides one of the following alarm types:

|Event Type|Description|
|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------|
|WEAK_SIGNAL |The RSSI signal is monitored every 10 minutes. An alarm is triggered when RSSI is < -80, which indicates an unstable connection. |
|RESTARTED   |The device has been restarted.  |
|OVER_TEMP   |The device is over heating, check installation and housing.|
|OVER_LOAD   |An over load condition has been detected, e.g. from the roller motor.|
|OVER_POWER  |Maximum allowed power was exceeded. The relay was turned off. |
|LOAD_ERROR  |Device reported a load problem. |

A new alarm will be triggered on a new condition or every 10 minutes if the condition persists.

Reviewer 2: Ok, those event types for the different alarms make sense and are much better than any JSON.

```
rule "Shelly Events"
when
    Channel "shelly:shelly1:XXXXXX:device#event" triggered
then
    logInfo("Shelly", "A Shelly device event of type "+receivedEvent.toString()+"was triggered")
end
```

> See Rule examples for information how to process the event payload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
See the Rule examples below for information on how to process the event payload.
```

Author: done

### Alarm Events

> The binding does some health checking on the device

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The binding provides health information of the device:
```

Author: done

> - The RSSI signal is monitored every 10 minutes. A alarm is send to the event channel when RSSI is < -80, which indicates an instable connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The RSSI signal is monitored every 10 minutes. An alarm is sent to the event channel when RSSI is < -80, which indicates an unstable connection.
```

Author: done

> - An alarm is send to the event channel when over heating, overload or a load error is reported by the device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An alarm is sent to the event channel when overheating, overload or a load error is reported by the device.
```

Author: replaced

> - Device reports over temperature, over load, over load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Those alarms could be received through the event channel as a trigger. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those alarms are provided through the event channel. 
```

Author: done

> Those alarms could be received through the event channel as a trigger. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Those alarms are provided through the event channel. 
```

Author: replaced

> Channel lastAlarm provides a textial description.

Reviewer 2: You mean the event channel ONLY says that there is "something" and the what has to be retrieved by the "lastAlarm" channels state? If so, this again does not make sense. Users could simply react upon state changes of the "lastAlarm" channel and there is no need for the event channel for alarms.

Author: I turn the alarm into a trigger channel with defined alarm types, see above

Reviewer 2: Ok, so the "lastAlarm" channel is removed then?

Number ShellyHT_Chimenea_Humid   "Chimenea Humidity"      <humidity>    {channel="shelly:shellyht:e01691:sensors#humidity"}
Number ShellyHT_Chimenea_Batt    "Chimenea Battery"       <battery>     {channel="shelly:shellyht:e01691:battery#batteryLevel"}
Number ShellyF_Sotano_Temp       "Sotano Temperature"     <temperature> {channel="shelly:shellyflood:764fe0:sensors#temperature"}
Number ShellyF_Sotano_Batt       "Sotano Battery"         <battery>     {channel="shelly:shellyflood:764fe0:battery#batteryLevel"}
Switch ShellyF_Sotano_Flood      "Sotano Flood Alarm"     <alarm>       {channel="shelly:shellyflood:764fe0:sensors#flood"}

/* Dimmer */
Switch DimmerSwitch     "Light on/off"                       {channel="shelly:shellydimmer:XXX:relay#brightness"}
Dimmer DimmerBrightness "Garage Light Brightness"            {channel="shelly:shellydimmer:XXX:relay#brightness"}
Dimmer DimmerIncDec     "Garage Light +/-"                   {channel="shelly:shellydimmer:XXX:relay#brightness"}

Number Shelly_Power     "Bath Room Light Power"                {channel="shelly:shelly1:XXXXXX:meter#currentWatts"} /* Power Meter */

```

> ###shelly.rules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### shelly.rules
```

Author: done
